QUESTIONS FOR THE ORAL EXAM/ TEAM DISCUSSION:
 
In this discussion students will present their view on the topics below. Listen to your partner. Agree or disagree and give your own opinion. And ask questions.
 
1.          What is the role of a managern      Choose top three roles and explain why. You may give some examples from your professional life.
The roles you may choose from are: motivator, mediator, leader, problem-solver, monitor, decision-maker, friend, organizer, role model
2.          Which best qualities should a manager have? Why are they important? Which attributes would be considered as either not important or even inadequate?
   1. Has to be:
      1. Efficient
      2. Flexible
         1. To be able to make quick unplanned changes
      3. Logical
      4. Creative
         1. For finding new ideas and find different points of view for problems
      5. Sociable
      6. Organized
         1.       7. Decisive
         1. To get things done
      8. Responsible
         1. Because he is the leader
      9. Supportive and Inspiring
         1. For keeping the team motivated
   2. Doesnt have to be:
      1. empathetic
Here you may refer to point A) on page 67, but you can also add other attributes which you may find important to mention.
3.          What kind of challenges does a manager face when working with a remote team?


4.          What does non-verbal communication refer to? Make mention of/explain:  cultural relativity and silent interaction. Give one example of cultural relativity.
        Gestures, Postures, Body movement, Voice, Touch, Eye Contact, Facial expressions
   1. Nonverbal communication has an impact of over 70% on the other person or persons you are talking to, compared to the text or context you actually give
   2. For example silence can be seen as awkward in some countries and in others it can be seen as a thoughtful moment to think about what happened or what to say next without any kind of awkwardness
   3. Also for the greeting  some people shake hands, others bend, like in some Asian countries
5.          What can you say about managerial philosophies?
   1. Managerial philosophies are the values a manager has to have towards his subordinates
   2. There is consideration, respect and trust
      1. Consideration: acknowledge what your subordinates say and don’t just ignore it and rely on your own opinion completely
      2. Respect: You should respect every human being
      3. Trust: You have to trust your subordinates in some kind of way, because you can never control everything
   3. Recognition and credit
      1. If an employee has reached a goal, you should give him credit for it and don’t just give him the next task
   4. Involvement and availability
      1. Be a part of the team, not just the leader that gives tasks and is unreachable
   5. Sense of justice
      1. Be fair
   6. Criticize in private
      1. You should not criticize someone in front of others and make him look bad that way
   7. Emphasis on end results
      1. Don’t be mad about everything going bad on the way to the end result as long as the end result is good, it does not matter that much
Refer to listening B on page 67 + posted worksheet
6.          Which are the different means of raising money? Which are the advantages and disadvantages?
   1. Equity and debt financing
      1. Debt: You get a loan from a bank for example
         1. + You don’t have to give away ownership and control over your company
         2. + You can choose the duration of your loan
         3. - You have to pay the  money back in a specific amount of time
         4. - too much debt can be a problem in raising stock capital
         5. - you have to pay back more than you got
      2. Equity: 
         1. + Less risk, because you don’t need to repay
         2. + You attract a network of investors, which increases the credibility of your company
         3. + Investors invest long term and don’t expect immediate returns
         4. – you give  away ownership over your company
         5. – you may pay more returns to the investors than a loan would cost you at a bank
         6. – in the case of a huge disagreement with the investors, it might happen that your company gets  taken over by them
   2. On the private market you can get loans easier and faster because of less checks and restrictions and less requirements you have to meet
   3. On the other hand you have to pay a way higher interest
   4. On the public market, like on the stock market, you can get a lot of capital really quickly
   5. It is a volatile market though and you have to give away a lot of percent of your company to the public market


You may refer to the worksheet posted on Moodle
7.          Discuss these sayings. Do you think they are true?
·         Money talks
·         He who pays the piper calls the tune
·         Beggars can’t be choosers
·         Don’t put all your eggs in one basket
·         You have to speculate to accumulate
8.          Describe the graph
1. Prices rose slowly and gradually.
2. There was a swift decrease.
3. Prices fluctuated slightly within that period.
4. Prices increased rapidly.
5. Prices reached the peak.
6. Prices fell dramatically.
7. Prices reached it’s lowest point (trough)
9.          What irritates you most when dealing with customer service departments? Can you give an example of a recent situation? And what do you appreciate the most when dealing with customer service?
        The music and the long waiting times at the beginning of my call to the customer service irritate me a lot
   1. Often I don’t understand the people, because they have a strong accent
   2. I get redirected to the next staff member, and always have to hold the line and mostly no one can help at the end
   3. I appreciate short waiting times, quick answers and kind employees
10.  Compare customer service of the past with customer service today. What has changed and where do you see the glitches  - if any.
   1. Communication channels changed from personal interaction or phone calls to live chat, email and self service options
   2. way faster response times because of the advanced technologies used nowadays. and also because of automation systems
   3. You get personalized support, with even a chatbot knowing everything about your data the company has, for example you can get the tracking number for some order via chatbot automated in less than 1 sec
11.  What can companies do to improve customer service?
   1. They can hire people speaking the language fluently
   2. They can be accommodating, like amazon for example
   3. They need to have enough employees for the customer service department to keep waiting times as low as possible
   4. Have to have a good knowledge distribution system
________________


12.  What defines the modern customer service experience? What are customers’ expectations?
   1. More demanding customers
   2. Expect fast delivery times
   3. Omnichannel support is expected
      1. email, live chat, social media, self-service, phone calls
   4. Free shipping, return options
   5. expect personalization
   6. A lot of payment methods
   7. Quick customer support
   8. Empathy by customer support workers
   9. Proactive communication by the business, especially for delays etc
   10. Customer Service is adapting with self service opportunities like chatbots, where you can get information about your orders / account / payment etc. just by chatting with a bot, its easy and quick
      1. Sometimes it may feel like your chatting with a real person


13.  We are all traveling more and more by plane. What can go wrong? Talk about any experience you have had recently.
   11. delays
      1. missing connection flight
   12. overbooked flights
   13. someone can get flight anxiety in a plane
   14. you can get annoyed by children being loud in the plane
   15. cancelled flights